---
layout: post
style: text
title: SEO - Techniques to Increase Your Organic Search Ranking - Scalable Content Generation
categories: 
  - SEO
---

### Method 1: Dynamic Landing Pages
Someone on your team knows their way around a programming language, ya? Write some code to dynamically create pages with the content being niches within your product space. For example, maybe you sell <a href="http://sloppykisscards.com">dog and cat ecards</a> like my friends Ryan and Nicole over at Sloppy Kiss Cards. They found that many of their potential customers would search for their particular breed of dog + 'ecards' rather than just the generic terms 'pet ecards' ie. the search terms would be 'golden lab ecards'. They wrote some code to dynamically create a landing page for each of those breeds and as a result, their search ranking shot up considerably. Super simple to do and effective. Patrick McKenzie of <a href="http://news.ycombinator.com">Hacker News</a> fame (patio11 is his username), and a generally regarded SEO expert, also uses this technique with one of his products <a href="http://bingocardcreator.com">Bingo Card Creator</a>. Search 'bingo cards' combined with any major teaching topic (Patrick markets the product to elementary school teachers) such as 'American Presidents' and you will find a result with a landing page specifically for that topic. In all likelihood this will be well-ranked result because he has content for this very specific niche and others in his space do not. Take it a step further and give each of those individual landing pages link juice by including topical copy and links in the footer or sidebar of your homepage. 

After reading this, you may be saying "Flip, I don't want to rate highly for these long-tail, super specific niche terms, I want to rate highly for {insert broad, often-searched-for terms that loosely correspond with what your startup does here}." A couple things to think about. One, it can be very difficult to rank highly for 'head' terms as lots of others out there have businesses based around those terms. Two, those that are searching for those head terms have conversion rates (and that is what you care about, right? Converting these searches to paid customers) orders of magnitude lower than those who search for niche/long-tail terms; this may be because those who search for head terms are less focused and are just 'browsing' whereas those searching for niche terms know what they want, have done previous research, and are much closer to a purchase decision. Pick your battles and focus on those search terms that you can win.

### Method 2: Microsites
Taking the above technique one step further, actually owning domain names that include words that potential customers may search for and then populating those domains with high quality content is a great technique to rank near the top of the results page. Google and other search engines place a high value on the words in the URL, giving you an 'exact match domain bonus' if the words in the search bar match your domain name. Using an analytics tool such as <a href="http://google.com/analytics">Google Analytics</a> one can see what search terms are being used to find your site. For those referring terms that dominate this report, it can be worth investigating whether creating a microsite with a URL similar to those terms should be created. For an example, we will again look to Patrick. He saw that there was a large spike in searches for bingo cards just before Halloween with an example search being 'Halloween bingo cards'. Thus, he purchased the domain <a href="http://halloweenbingocards.net">http://halloweenbingocards.net</a>, threw applicable content up on the page and provided links to his main product page should searchers want to purchase bingo cards. 

Creating microsites is not all roses however. I am paraphrasing here but Patrick has pointed out that whatever resources you spend (time, money, link juice from referrers) on getting users to one of your microsites are resources that are being taken away from your primary domain. 

_My primary source for this post is Gabriel Weinberg's excellent interview with Patrick McKenzie on [SEO and AdWords for Bingo Card Creator](http://www.gabrielweinberg.com/blog/2010/04/patrick-mckenzie-on-seo-adwords-for-bingo-card-creator.html)_
